**GOVERNMENT-STRATEGIC-PLAN-ANALYTICAL**
The system’s overall objective is to help the government of Rwanda to; know the priority activity to base on in Imihigo planification, help people to give their ideas everywhere and every time, reduce the resources spent by government to seek ideas, accelerate the development of Rwanda, reduce corruption in Imihigo planification, and reduce time of meeting for gathering suggestion. And generally, it will aid the local government in taking right decision.
The system will have two types of users: the citizen, who will have access to a number of services including the ability to provide issues and inquiries that they want to provide to the government, and will be used in strategic planning; and the admin, who will have control over what information is provided to the citizens, and have access to statistical reports that summarize the overall usage of the system.
**Background of the Study**
Government strategic plan have been a tool for accelerating the development outcomes that have been envisaged in both long- and medium-term development ambitions. Government have been a reliable tool for recalibrating performance at the central and district levels.
Both government strategic and action plans are used by government of Rwanda to define goals, targets and objectives.  When Imihigo are developed, government leaders are advised to ask some key questions before including activities in them.
Rwanda did not have to wait for favorable winds but rather generate her own winds to sail through the difficulty times, in order to change the course of her economic and social history. To reconstruct Rwanda and nurture a shared identity and responsibility, the government of Rwanda drew on aspects of Rwandan culture and traditional practices and the result was a set of Home-Grown Solutions based on culturally owned practices that could help shape sustainable development programs.
One of Home-Grown aspect is Imihigo. Imihigo is the plural Kinyarwanda word of Umuhigo, which means to vow to deliver. In the modern-day Rwanda, Imihigo practice was adopted as a means of planning to accelerate the progress towards economic development and poverty reduction. Imihigo has had a strong focus on results which has made it an invaluable tool in the planning, accountability and monitoring and evaluation processes. In 2006, Imihigo (known also as performance contracts) was introduced to address this need. Since its introduction, Imihigo has been credited with improving accountability and quickening the pace of citizen centered development activities and programs. The practice of Imihigo has now been extended to ministries, embassies and public service staff.
**Scope of the Subject**
This project focuses on how to deliver issues entered by the citizens to the government through an online platform that provides an easy access for the government to citizen issues. In turn, this allows the government to acquire more information regarding the citizens such as number of citizens that share a similar issue and what area they come from, a list of issues listed in order of importance, etc. In order for the government to carried out a well thought out and effective strategic plan.
	Same of citizen have problem of share same issues according where their live which is for.
